Atlassian Enterprise Assessment

A reflection of my summer internship at Atlassian

Project Details
Timeline: xyz
Role: xyz
Skills: xyz
Tools: xyz

Some hero image here

Context & Existing Research
I wanted to understand the current problem space and the pain points users had regarding Enterprise and Premium plan adoption. Here are the key takeaways:

Customer perspective
“One of the problems I have with the word ‘enterprise’ is it’s unclear... Am I an enterprise?”
Enterprise is a buzzword that has an unclear definition across companies. 

Atlassian (our) perspective
“People say ‘I need Enterprise - 50 users.’ Why do you think that is what you need?”
Customers with very low user tiers that don’t qualify for Enterprise frequently ask for Enterprise benefits. Sales team members wish for a quiz to help customers determine plan fit. 

Personas
To help understand and fully empathize with our target audience(s), two user personas were created. 
Our primary users are customers migrating from Server to Cloud, who ultimately are unsure about what Enterprise plans entail and if Premium or Enterprise better suits their needs. This is especially important given the cost and benefit differences between both plans. However, we also have to consider our secondary users: growing Standard plan customers looking for a plan suiting their needs. 

Problem Statement
Customers are unclear on what plans help address their needs and are overwhelmed with product offerings.

Opportunity
Design a question-based experience to help users navigate their plan options and increase the number of informed customers

OPEN QUESTIONS ➡️ PROCESS
How should we approach making this?

When starting to ideate on what this question-based experience would look like, there were several initial considerations and questions. 
What is the form of the assessment? What is the question logic? Where should this be placed?

COMPETITIVE ANALYSIS
What form should this experience take?
In order to determine what form this question-based experience should take, I first conducted a competitive analysis. The competitive analysis consisted of 5 market competitors ranging from telephone companies to other SaaS companies: Microsoft, HubSpot, LinkedIn, codecademy and T-mobile.  
We wanted to explore how companies similarly give users a personalized recommendation through a series of questions. Therefore, we mainly determined the experience should be either an assessment or a chatbot conversation. We ultimately decided on making the experience an assessment as we considered the potential number of questions and ease of implementation. 

DECISION TREE
What should be the question logic and order?
After determining that this experience should be an assessment, I next worked with an APM intern, Hamreet, to create a decision tree. A decision tree helped visualize the various question options, order and logic of the assessment.


